### Development of fibre optic Fabry-Perot sensors for measurement of high intensity focused ultrasound fields

Project ID: 2228cc1452
(You will need this ID for your application)

### Under Offer

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering](../departments/medical-physics-and-biomedical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/medical-physics-biomedical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Elly Martin](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/47271)

Industry partner: [Precision Acoustics](https://www.acoustics.co.uk/   )

Stipend enhancement: £3,000 pa

Project Summary:

High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) offers non-invasive treatment for cancer and neurological disorders by precisely focusing sound to heat and ablate tissue. To ensure its efficacy, precise targeting of acoustic waves is paramount, necessitating accurate measurement and characterization of ultrasound sources. However, existing measurement devices often fall short due to their inability to withstand high pressures or their limited sensitivity. This project aims to develop advanced Fabry-Perot interferometer-based optical sensors, optimized for high-amplitude, focused acoustic field measurements, critical for assessing new devices and validating treatment plans.
You will work with experts in optics, acoustics, acoustic sensors, and medical ultrasound from UCL's Biomedical Ultrasound and Photoacoustic Imaging groups, as well as industrial partner, Precision Acoustics. The team will provide guidance and training in sensor development, modelling, fabrication, and validation.
The aim is to design and optimize sensors for high-pressure ultrasound fields. Variables including the number of mirror layers, thickness, and geometry will be explored to determine the ideal sensor structure. Additionally, you will investigate various materials and fabrication techniques to enhance sensor durability without compromising sensitivity and frequency response. Techniques for sensor characterization, including broadband optically generated ultrasound, will be developed. Sensor performance will be validated against simulations and other sensors, and testing will be conducted using clinical HIFU equipment.
We are seeking a motivated student with an interest in acoustics and optics applied to medical technology. This project offers a unique opportunity to work at the intersection of experimental physics, hands-on engineering, and computational modelling. It also provides a platform for individuals interested in fostering collaborations between academia and industry and commercializing research.
This research holds the promise of advancing technology to improve the precision and effectiveness of focused ultrasound treatments, benefiting patients with conditions such as cancer, uterine fibroids, and essential tremor, while also unlocking new therapeutic applications of ultrasound.
