### The impact of extreme external conditions on internal environments and implications for energy demand and wellbeing – a field trial amongst disadvantaged households

Project ID: 2228cd1245
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Gesche Huebner](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/36678)

Project Summary:

Why this research is important
The UK increasingly sees extreme weather events such as heatwaves and flooding but also wider climate-change related consequences, e.g. a longer hay fever season. External conditions influence internal environments where we spend most of our time. Understanding this impact on indoor environments and consequences for human health  and energy use are crucial to design effective mitigation strategies. Subgroups of the population will be particularly impacted, e.g. depending on age, tenure, and income.

What you will be doing
The aim of this studentship is to understand internal environmental conditions during extreme external conditions, to evaluate their impacts on energy demand, wellbeing and other metrics, and to develop initial suggestions on how mitigating those impacts. You will collect empirical data through temperature, air pollution and other sensors, paired with smart meter data and householder reports. The field trial will take place in the “Equity living lab”, about 200 households from disadvantaged backgrounds, created as part of a new Energy Demand Research Centre (EDRC). 

Who we are looking for
Applicants need an excellent masters level degree in energy, engineering building science or a related field, have a strong interest in climate change and equity, and be willing to engage in interdisciplinary research.
Applicants should meet the Environmental Design and Engineering MPhil/PhD programme entry requirements. All applicants must meet the minimum language requirements of UCL.

Who you will be working with
The studentship will be supervised by Dr Gesche Huebner and Prof Ian Hamilton. Gesche is UCL lead for the Energy Demand Research Centre and Equity theme member. Ian is Professor of Energy, Environment and Health with expertise in energy demand in buildings, indoor environmental quality and health impacts.
Affiliation with the EDRC allows collaboration with academics from across the country plus partners from policy, industry, and civil society.
