### Scope 3 Emissions of Heating Technologies

Project ID: 2228cd1253
(You will need this ID for your application)

### Under Offer

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Sustainable Construction](../departments/bartlett-school-of-sustainable-construction.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/construction)

Lead Supervisor: [Zhifu Mi](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/64212)

Project Summary:

Heating is a major contributor to the UK’s greenhouse gas emissions, making it crucial to achieve the country's commitment to Net Zero by 2050. A range of technologies can be used to reduce carbon emissions from the heating system. One often overlooked aspect in assessing the effectiveness of heating technologies is Scope 3 emissions, which refer to the indirect greenhouse gas emissions associated with the entire life cycle of technologies. Only by gaining a deep understanding of the full lifecycle emissions of heating technologies can cost-effective policies be developed.

This project will establish the Scope 3 emissions of heating sector as well as specific heating technologies, aimed at enhancing our comprehension of the carbon implications of heating technologies and providing policy implications for achieving net zero heating in the UK. Specifically, this project will 

1) Utilize an input-output model to establish the Scope 3 emissions of the heating sector, examining carbon interactions with other sectors;
2) Employ life cycle analysis to establish the Scope 3 emissions of a variety of heating technologies;
3) Develop an optimization model to identify cost-effective pathways for achieving net-zero heating in the UK.

The student will be based at The Bartlett School of Sustainable Construction, University College London, and supervised by Prof. Zhifu Mi and Prof. Xi Liang. The student will also collaborate with the research team of EPSRC project “Heat Accumulation from Renewables with Valid Energy Storage and Transformation”.

We are seeking a highly capable candidate, with a Master’s degree in built environment, energy engineering, mathematics, or other relevant disciplines. Proficiency in at least one programming software package, such as MATLAB, R, or Python, is required. While not mandatory, expertise in areas such as input-output model, life cycle analysis, optimization modelling, or carbon accounting would be advantageous.
