### Limits to speed in electro-optic modulation

Project ID: 2228cd1298
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Information and Communication Technologies](../themes/information-and-communication-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Electronic and Electrical Engineering (EEE)](../departments/electronic-and-electrical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/electronic-electrical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Michael Wale](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/69536)

Project Summary:

The internet depends on wide-bandwidth fibre optic links, now operating at 400Gbit/s and above, often with multiple wavelengths, reaching overall capacities of several tens of Tbit/s per fibre, over distances up to thousands of km.  The demand for higher bandwidth is unceasing and we are now reaching the point where fundamental physical limits become important.  The project will examine the design and realization of electro-optic modulators and photonic integrated circuits for direct and coherent transmission at data rates above 200GBaud (>2 Tbit/s per wavelength using advanced modulation schemes), in platforms including III-V quantum dots on silicon, InP and lithium niobate on insulator, and will elucidate the role of fundamental physical processes in setting the bandwidth limits.  It will involve theoretical and experimental work including the design, fabrication and characterization of leading-edge devices and circuits, including their integration with electronic circuits and systems.
The project provides great scope for innovation and creativity, as well as for critical scientific thinking.  It will allow the student to develop advanced skills in semiconductor integrated photonics and advanced integration concepts, as well as developing simulation strategies and experimental techniques.  It is well suited to students with a background in electrical/electronic engineering or in physics. Candidates with skills in adjacent areas such as materials science are also encouraged to apply.
