### Optical trapping and spectroscopy of 2D nanomaterials

Project ID: 2228cd1417
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Physical Sciences](../themes/physical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [Physics and Astronomy](../departments/physics-and-astronomy.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/physics-astronomy)

Lead Supervisor: [Philip Jones](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/5427)

Project Summary:

Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov were awarded the 2010 Physics Nobel Prize “for ground-breaking experiments regarding the two-dimensional material graphene”.  Since then the family of 2D materials has grown to encompass almost all elements of the periodic table [1].  The unique properties of these materials make them attractive candidates for diverse applications in energy storage, optoelectronics and sensors.

In 2018 Arthur Ashkin was awarded a share of the Physics Nobel Prize “for the optical tweezers and their application to biological systems”.  Optical tweezers use a single, strongly focused laser beam to trap and manipulate microscopic objects in a remote, non-destructive manner, which has led to applications in fields as varied as single molecule biophysics, nanothermodynamics, and forensic science [2].

In this project we will draw on expertise in UCL Physics to study the novel 2D materials that are produced in Chris Howard’s laboratory using the optical trapping experiments from Phil Jones’ laboratory.  CH has devised techniques for the production of novel nanomaterials, e.g. phosphine nanoribbons [3].  PJ has developed numerous optical trapping experiments including holographic and evanescent wave traps, and applied them to nanomaterials including graphene [4].  By combining the expertise from both laboratories we will use optical tweezers to isolate individual particles of 2D nanomaterials for investigation using a combined optical tweezers – Raman spectroscopy microscope.  We will further use optical forces for controlled deposition of 2D materials onto a substrate for prototyping of nanomaterial-enabled devices [5].

[1] P. Miro, et al. Chem. Soc. Rev .18 6537 (2014)
[2] P. H. Jones, O. M. Marago & G. Volpe, ‘Optical Tweezers: Principles & Applications’, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (2015)
[3] M. C. Watts, et al. Nature 568, 216 (2019)
[4] O. M. Maragò, et al. ACS Nano 4 7515-7523 (2010)
[5] M. G. Donato, et al. Nanoscale 10 1245-1255 (2018)
