### Exotic forms of matter in interaction of molecules with intense laser pulses

Project ID: 2228cd1420
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Physical Sciences](../themes/physical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [Physics and Astronomy](../departments/physics-and-astronomy.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/physics-astronomy)

Lead Supervisor: Agapi Emmanouilidou

Project Summary:

We aim to explore the interaction of molecules with free-electron lasers (FELs), which are short-duration and short-wavelength pulses. FELs are a marvel of quantum technology and open new horizons for controlling the ultrafast motion of inner-shell electrons in fundamental processes far from equilibrium in chemical reactions and matter under extreme conditions. The proposed research will explore electronic processes such as charge transfer, coherent ionization and formation of exotic states of matter with inner-shell holes during the break-up of FEL-driven molecules. 
The Ph.D student will be supervised by Prof. A. Emmanouilidou and Prof. S. Yurchenko at UCL and will receive ideal training in cutting-edge quantum-mechanical and computational techniques that describe processes at the forefront of laser-matter interactions.  The student will develop quantum techniques and computational tools to significantly advance the state of the art in theory that addresses ultrafast processes in driven molecules. Also, the student will have the unique opportunity to collaborate with the top experimental groups of Prof. T. Pfeiffer, Director at the Max-Planck Institute in Heidelberg, and of Prof. M. Kling Director of the Science Division at SLAC at Stanford University. Specifically, the techniques that we aim to develop will also provide the theory, we currently lack, to compliment cutting-edge experimental studies concerning ionization and coherent processes in molecules driven by intense and high photon energy pulses.
We are looking for Ph.D students with a strong interest in atomic and molecular physics and in particular in the field of laser-matter interactions. Strong background in both mathematical methods and quantum-mechanics is particularly desirable. Prior knowledge of computational languages and tools is an advantage but not necessary. Finally, we are looking for a student with a passion for inter-disciplinary research to work and train alongside experts in theory and experiment in the field of interaction of molecules with laser pulses.
