### THz photonics for spectroscopy and near field imaging

Project ID: 2228cd1300
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Information and Communication Technologies](../themes/information-and-communication-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Electronic and Electrical Engineering (EEE)](../departments/electronic-and-electrical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/electronic-electrical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Oleg Mitrofanov](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/542)

Project Summary:

THz radiations represent the range between optical radiations and radio waves. They have gathered increased interest over the last few decades has they offer interesting interactions with a range of materials. In particular, one can observe rotational and vibrational resonances in that range of frequencies, enabling, for example, the possibility to differentiate molecules with different structures but identical chemical composition. 
However, the range suffers from a lack of sources power and overall system signal to noise ratio is typically challenging. 
The proposed PhD has the potential to explore different aspect of the problem with the ultimate aim to develop spectroscopy or imaging systems. The research encompasses device development, in particular meta-surfaces and nanostructures development for increased efficiency. It also looks into advanced system development for a range of applications (e.g. bio-sensing and quantum manipulation). 
Our laboratory facilities offer the opportunity to look at the development of the full system form material growth, device fabrication and characterisation to system measurements with either time domain spectroscopy THz system or continuous wave THz spectroscopy system including a full lab-on chip demonstration system.
The successful candidate will be invited to fully define the PhD topic within the field of study in collaboration with one of our supervisors. Please feel free to contact one of us to discuss potential detailed research topics within our team.
