### Full integrated, ultra-wideband receivers for coherent data transmission

Project ID: 2228cd1295
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Information and Communication Technologies](../themes/information-and-communication-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Electronic and Electrical Engineering (EEE)](../departments/electronic-and-electrical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/electronic-electrical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Cyril Renaud](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/10921)

Project Summary:

The future of the internet depends on the development of transmission components with ever wider bandwidth, without compromising power efficiency.  Research at UCL has led to the development of the Uni-Travelling Carrier photodetectors with extremely high bandwidth (>100GHz, with response to above 2THz).  In addition to exploring the optimization of these devices, this project will explore how UTC detectors can be combined with waveguide couplers, polarization handing components and other elements, including high bandwidth electronics, to realize fully integrated receivers for coherent transmission systems utilizing advanced modulation formats.  The aim will be to explore the limits of bandwidth and efficiency in these devices and to elucidate the issues involved in their realization in Photonic Integrated Circuit form, thereby achieving unprecedented levels of performance.  
The project provides great scope for innovation and creativity, as well as for critical scientific thinking.  It will allow the student to develop advanced skills in semiconductor integrated photonics, wide-bandwidth electronics, semiconductor device fabrication and advanced integration concepts, as well as developing simulation strategies and experimental techniques.  It is well suited to students with a background in electrical/electronic engineering or in physics.  Candidates with skills in adjacent areas such as materials science are also encouraged to apply.
