### Topic: Establishing a framework for the efficient carbon footprint assessment of modern automated hydrographic surveying

Project ID: 2228cd1268
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering (CEGE)](../departments/civil-environmental-and-geomatic-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/civil-environmental-geomatic-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Cassandra Nanlal](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/89756)

Project Summary:

Hydrographic Surveying is the science of measurements of seafloor features and depths and while historically its primary purpose was for safety of navigation, more recently their usefulness in providing data critical for the maritime energy industry as well as marine environmental modelling has been realised. Rapid technological advancement in this industry and the drive towards the 2050 Net Zero goal means that the transition from traditional diesel powered vessels to remotely operated and/or autonomous vessels for hydrographic surveying. It is widely hypothesized that the use of automated vessels will result in a significant reduction in the carbon footprint of the sector, however, there is a lack of a framework for an efficient evaluation. Such frameworks already exist for land-based construction but despite the fundamental importance of the maritime economy and its impact on Net Zero have not yet been developed in this context.
This research will develop a framework for efficiently computing the carbon footprint of traditional and modern hydrographic surveying operations allowing for a thorough assessment of the emission changes. The research will consider Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions from hydrographic survey operations, including vessel manufacturing, operations (acquisition, processing, transfer and storage) as well as decommissioning. Resources available include an EPSRC funded £260k multibeam enabled uncrewed surface vessel equipped with precise positioning system for high quality hydrographic surveying operations. Hydrographic Surveying Industry partners engaged in this area interested in supporting this research include Port of London Authority and Ocean Infinity. 
A suitable candidate will have knowledge and training in Marine/Geospatial/ Environmental Science as evidenced by an appropriate degree and keen interest in sustainability research. This role will require the ability to communicate effectively, work independently and in a team.  An engineering background, knowledge of the hydrographic surveying industry and some experience with programming would be an asset.
