### Integrating synthetic biology and fabrication for sustainable bio-based construction materials

Project ID: 2228cd1266
(You will need this ID for your application)

### Under Offer

Research Theme: [Engineering](../themes/engineering.md)

UCL Lead department: [Biochemical Engineering](../departments/biochemical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/biochemical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Stefanie Frank](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/60577)

Project Summary:

Background: 
There is a growing awareness of the waste and pollution created by the building industry. Consumers are increasingly supportive of sustainable solutions which is driving innovation around biomaterials using microorganisms in living architectures, i.e. self-healing concrete. The creation of such materials is supported by synthetic biology techniques, microbiology and metagenomics advances for the design of novel  strains. This is a unique property of engineered biomaterials over traditional biomaterials (such as wood), as engineered biomaterials are tunable and may be controlled at the molecular level to perform specific functions on demand. 

Aim: 
Building on the supervisory team’s combined expertise, we aim to integrate synthetic biology and microbiology along with novel design fabrication methodologies to generate microbial systems that will be combined with other components to provide novel materials for applications in a variety of settings, i.e. biologically active surfaces. 

Objectives:
• Designing, cloning, expression studies and characterisation of desired microbial strain. This will follow the bioengineering design-build-test-learn (DTBL) cycle and will make use of automation technologies at the different sites.
• Testing functionality of strains under specific conditions and in combination with other components needed in for the biomaterial. 
• Building prototype materials and testing critical parameters, i.e. compression, strength etc. using the specialist equipment and robotics at the Bio-Integrated Design (Bio-ID) laboratories.
• Scaling and application of prototypes.

Training:
The successful candidate will have the opportunity to develop skills in bioinformatics, modelling, synthetic biology, analysis of strains/pathways/enzymes, material design, prototyping and automation.
 
Who we are looking for:
The preferred candidate will have some experience in molecular biology & microbiology and experience or interest in working with biomaterials. The candidate will be expected to have at least an upper second-class Bachelor’s degree or equivalent at Masters level in Biochemistry, Biochemical Engineering or a Synthetic Biology related degree.
