### Sustainability assessment tools for cross laminated secondary timber modular buildings

Project ID: 2228cd1267
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Circular Economy](../themes/circular-economy.md)

UCL Lead department: [Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering (CEGE)](../departments/civil-environmental-and-geomatic-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/civil-environmental-geomatic-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Aiduan Borrion](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/2723)

Project Summary:

The building industry is a large contributor to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and it is estimated that, in the next 40 years, around 415 Gt of CO2 will be released as a result of global construction activities. Therefore, improvements in construction technologies are essential to building a green future and thereby achieve net zero goals. Cross-Laminated Secondary Timber (CLST) has emerged as an innovative alternative material to steel/concrete in building construction, in particular for modular buildings and facilities. However, most of the work so far has been focused on design of CLST modulars. It is important to understand the impacts (both positive and negative) of CLST modulars and their potential for reuse and recycling. Nevertheless, there is a lack of tools to help assess the CLST based modular products.

This project will build on an ongoing collaboration with Portakabin, who are keen to explore the use of CLST for their modular buildings. This project will develop a set of quantitative tools assessing the life cycle environmental impacts (e.g. GHG emissions, water use), energy efficiency, indoor air quality, and circular indicators of CLST modulars. The project will employ methods, such as life cycle assessment (LCA), circular design principles, and the state of art facility, Controlled Active Ventilation Environment laboratory  (CAVE) at UCL east, with the support of Portakabin. We will explore different circular economy options of CLST kit of parts from remanufacturing to timber regeneration.

We are looking for a student with a background of architectural design and engineering with knowledge and interest in sustainability and circular economy to work on this highly interdisciplinary project. The outcome of the project will provide robust insights for architects, designers, engineers, and policymakers, aiding them in making informed choices and optimizing CLST modulars to drive sustainability transformation within the construction industry.
