### Novel intensified technologies for production of olefins from CO2 and waste feedstock

Project ID: 2228cd1284
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemical Engineering](../departments/chemical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: Massimiliano Materazzi

Project Summary:

The olefin industry is an important part of the global economy, but it is also fundamentally reliant on fossil feedstocks. Whilst some progress could be made to reduce emissions, products derived from olefins, like plastics, cannot be decarbonised. Substantial reduction in use of crude oil and natural gas in these products can only be achieved through a switch to alternative carbon sources. 
This project primary aim is to develop a highly intensified and flexible process for ethylene and propylene production from waste biomass, non-recyclable plastics and captured CO2, and validate it in an industrial environment. The core technology is a novel sorption enhanced olefin synthesis process (SEOS) developed by Materazzi’s group at UCL, which integrates novel catalysts for syngas-to-olefins with in-situ water removal, and cyclic regeneration. 
This PhD research will aim at demonstrating the viability of SEOS process using waste-derived syngas, through multiscale experimentation and advanced multiphase characterization techniques, such as X-ray cineradiography, ultrasounds and thermal imaging. The experimental work will be carried out in Materazzi’s Bioenergy Technologies Research Lab at UCL Bloomsbury, and on a newly-built pilot scale reactor at the Manufacturing Future Lab (MFL) at UCL East. The final objective is to assess overall performance and probe operational limits to facilitate detailed design and optimisation of a range of future biorefinery technology options. These information will be then used to develop reactor models to design and optimise the full process, and inform techno-economic and Life Cycle Assessment analyses. 
The successful candidate will have a background in engineering and an interest in catalytic synthesis, reactors design and sustainability. They will collaborate with postdoctoral researchers in Chemical Engineering at UCL and Imperial College under a related EPSRC project, and work closely with industrial partners throughout the studentship, including the opportunity for site visits and internships as the project progresses.
