### Controllable molecular delivery agents for nucleic acid therapeutics

Project ID: 2228cd1372
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: [Cally Haynes](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/72038)

Project Summary:

Nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) are essential tools in modern biology, have been administered worldwide to overcome the COVID-19 global pandemic, and entered the market to target genetic diseases not accessible to other modalities. However, the future success of nucleic acid therapeutics hinges on overcoming inefficient cellular delivery of these large, negatively charged molecules, which is a key reason for the failure of many oligonucleotide therapeutics in clinical development.
In this project, we will develop controllable DNA binders for the targeted delivery and release of nucleic acid therapeutics. The incorporation of a wide variety of groups designed to promote cellular delivery will allow us to deliver many different types of nucleic acid therapeutics to cells and tissues. Our molecular delivery agents may form the basis of new medical breakthroughs.
The project will be joint between the Haynes and Booth groups at UCL Chemistry, who are experts in the study of nucleic acids, non-covalent binding interactions, membrane transport, the chemical synthesis of photoswitches, bioconjugation to targeting groups and developing complex, light-controlled DNA processes. Working closely with researchers within the Haynes and Booth groups, the student will develop skills in organic synthesis, photochemical characterisation, bioconjugation, nucleic acid/protein chemistry and biology, cell imaging and drug delivery. There will also be opportunities to collaborate with other groups at UCL and internationally to demonstrate the application of this technology.
For this project, we are looking for a student who understands chemistry and wants to apply their knowledge towards biological and medical problems.
