### Developing equitable technologies for older adults

Project ID: 2228cd1437
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Division of Psychology and Lang Sciences](../departments/division-of-psychology-and-lang-sciences.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/pals)

Lead Supervisor: [Aneesha Singh](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/30634)

Project Summary:

Older adults have long been lesser beneficiaries of the digital economy, with many unable or choosing not to adopt digital technologies which do not address their particular needs and wants. With COVID-19 spurring societal digitalisation at an unprecedented pace, digitally disadvantaged older adults have been locked out of essential and life-saving services, while others have been made to take up technologies they may be deeply uncomfortable using. This project aims to design and develop digital tools and prototypes that are age-appropriate and use inclusive interactions and language for websites, apps and digital services —for example, providing suitable search and conversational tools (e.g., chatbots) that are understandable, can be trusted, and match older people’s diverse needs. The prototypes will be developed using co-design approaches, and in partnership with older adults, focusing on the areas of health and wellbeing. The prototypes and artefacts will inform our emerging understanding of requirements for a more inclusive digital economy. This project will address gaps in understanding around how to design technologies that benefit older adults at different stages of getting older, considering different socio-economic contexts and intersections of identity and status. Candidates should be interested in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), and must possess a strong Bachelor’s or Master’s degree in a related discipline (e.g., Computer Science, HCI, Psychology). The ideal candidate for this project will have the necessary technical skills to conduct research using one or more of empirical methods (i.e., quantitative experiments conducted in the lab or qualitative studies) and design skills. Experience of software development and relevant previous research experience are desirable.
