### Bioinspired self-healing organic semiconductors

Project ID: 2228cd1369
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Manufacturing The Future](../themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: [Bob Schroeder](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/64617)

Project Summary:

In 2020, the UK spent £258 billion on healthcare, accounting for 12% of GDP, compared to £123 billion (7.4% of GDP) in 2000. The aging population, with 18.6% aged 65 or older, is further increasing pressure on future healthcare costs. Remote healthcare and monitoring solutions could reduce overall healthcare expenses by promoting preventive healthcare, earlier diagnosis, and treatment. To advance individualized healthcare, the proposed research targets a key materials challenge to ultimately enable fully skin-wearable biosensors for non-invasive analyte monitoring. As electronic devices become more integrated into our lives, the shift from portable to skin-wearable devices is imminent. However, to successfully conduct this transition, new ductile semiconductors that can be directly applied to the human skin must be developed. Organic conjugated polymers are ideal candidates due to their inherent flexibility, good processability, and tuneable electronic properties. In addition to being flexible, these biomimetic materials must be capable of self-healing upon deformation and damage, restoring not only their mechanical, but also electronic functions. Drawing inspiration from nature, an intriguing polymer concept is rooted in the Watson-Crick base pairs responsible for the DNA's helical structure. The incorporation of supramolecular interactions into conjugated polymers provides dynamic and reversible crosslinking in the polymer matrix. This doctoral project will focus on the synthesis and characterisation of these novel polymers, incorporating complementary base pairs within its molecular framework. By judiciously blending these complementary base pairs, the polymers can establish a dynamic network of hydrogen bonds, endowing self-healing properties to the organic semiconductors. The successful candidate will work within an interdisciplinary team comprising chemists, device engineers, and material scientists. This collaborative environment will enable them not only to explore the chemical characteristics of these new polymers but also to examine their rheological behaviour and assess their suitability for integration into self-healing and skin-wearable electronic devices.
