### Controlling Group 15 Alloy Nanoribbons

Project ID: 2228cd1360
(You will need this ID for your application)

### Under Offer

Research Theme: [Physical Sciences](../themes/physical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: [Adam Clancy](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/63644)

Project Summary:

Group 15 nanoribbons are a new and unique family of atomically flat nanomaterials tens of nanometres wide with remarkably high electron, hole, and ion mobility, combined with a controllable band gap and unique magnetic edge states. We recently discovered that alloying phosphorus nanoribbons with arsenic dramatically decreased the bandgap to amplify conductivity and room temperature, while modifying the magnetic edges.
Here, we will be looking to broaden the nanoribbon properties through controlling their synthesis. In particular, we will look to expand the possible elements available beyond P and As (e.g. Sb, Bi, Ge/Se, Sn/Te), control the stoichiometry, and influence the atomic distribution. Beyond, the dimensions of the nanoribbons – particularly the width – dictate the optoelectronic properties, providing another challenging parameter to control.
As the work will cover the materials throughout its journey from precursor to final application, a wide array of techniques will be used. The synthesis of the layered crystal precursor will require learning solid state and vapour transport crystal growth (including glassblowing and furnace work), the ribbonisation will involve cryogenic ammonia handling and electrochemistry, and air-free chemical handling will be required throughout. Many characterisation tools will be necessary, including transmission electron microscopy, probe microscopies, diffraction (X-ray and neutron) techniques, magnetometry (SQUID) and spectroscopies (particularly Raman and X-ray photoelectron). 
The research will be undertaken at UCL Chemistry, supervised by Dr Adam Clancy (nanomaterials, materials characterisation) and Prof Andrea Sella (inorganic synthesis). The work will involve collaboration internally (Physics and Chemical Engineering) and with institutions throughout the UK.
The research would best fit a student looking for a wide ranging experimental PhD, with an interest in inorganic or materials chemistry, but no previous experience in these areas is required.
