### Understanding and improving durability of nanopatterned surfaces

Project ID: 2228cd1308
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Manufacturing The Future](../themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)

UCL Lead department: [Mechanical Engineering](../departments/mechanical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/mechanical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Martyna Michalska](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/71318)

Project Summary:

Research Context/Importance: Nature-inspired surface nanopatterning can impart antireflectivity, the ability to repel water (rain/fog), oils, and bacteria, as well as to prevent or delay ice formation. As such, it offers unparalleled opportunities in engineering of new multifunctional substrates, photon management strategies, or difficult-to-realise material-property combinations. In nature, such surfaces are self-assembled via bottom-up route. An alternative is a top-down fabrication, where nanopatterns can be prepared cost-effectively and on large scales. For these remarkable pattern-induced properties, however, preserving the structure is vital, which is currently the biggest engineering bottleneck. Solving the problem would enable many applications where damaging abrasions are problematic like high-touch surfaces, windshields, or solar panels. 

Project Description: This project aims to understand and improve wear-resistance of nanoengineered surfaces. Overall, mechanical properties of nanopillars (elastic modulus/fracture stress) are not well described due to the technical challenges of their measurements at the nanoscale. The student will be trained in nano/microfabrication strategies to have the ability to pattern/develop patterning routes (e.g.: photo-/nanoimprint lithography, etching) for variety of materials (e.g., silicon/polymers/etc.) with good control over the pattern geometry. To improve wear-resistance, the project will explore various designs as well as surface modifications/new composite formulations. The properties will be characterised by means of e.g., atomic force microscopy, nanoindentation, Taber abrasion tests. This will be coupled with computational approach where the properties will be simulated, which will guide the designs and fabrication. The candidate will be embedded within a multidisciplinary research team at UCL and will also have opportunities to collaborate with leading technology companies.
Person specification:
• Applicants are preferred to have a first-class undergraduate/master’s degree (or equivalent) in Mechanical/Material Engineering or a related discipline,
• Excellent organisational, interpersonal and communication skills, along with a stated interest in nanoengineering research, are essential,
• Experience/background in solid mechanics, nano/micro-fabrication, chemistry would be desirable.
