### Developing Capabilities for Automated Green Chemistry

Project ID: 2228cd1338
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Manufacturing The Future](../themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)

UCL Lead department: [School of Pharmacy](../departments/school-of-pharmacy.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/pharmacy)

Lead Supervisor: [Duncan Browne](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/75727)

Project Summary:

The ability to collect many data points and rapidly assess experimental conditions in an automated fashion is revolutionising the way that new chemical discoveries can be delivered to society, including their synthesis, manufacture, final solid form, and formulation. Automated High-Throughput Experimentation (HTE) techniques can be readily incorporated with capabilities such as robotics and AI. This project will lay some groundwork towards the development of an automated approach to green chemistry, with a specific focus on the technique of mechanochemistry. 
Mechanochemistry by ball-milling uses milling devices to run chemical reactions in the absence of a bulk reaction solvent.  The technique offers promise to deliver both the discovery and manufacture of many chemicals in a solvent-minimised manner, providing excellent potential for green chemistry. We are in the process of developing HTE of mechanochemical reactions, as a prelude, we have demonstrated that mechanochemical reactions can be run both in parallel and in miniature (two important precursors prior to HTE techniques).
When moving to HTE techniques one challenge is the accurate and reproducible dosing of small quantities of materials (such as catalysts) to the reaction vessels, i.e. reliably dosing 1-2 mg of a metal catalyst into each reaction well/vessel. Since 2019, pharmaceutical companies have been exploring the use of ‘Chem-Beads’ as a way to accurately dose small quantities of catalyst into robotic HTE processes. 
This project will explore the use of ‘chem-beads’ with ball-milling processes. No prior experience in ball milling is required, training and mentorship will be provided! You will prepare and characterise a range of chem-beads following the literature procedure using a vortex mixer. Once these materials are satisfactorily prepared they will then be used to conduct a range of catalytic reactions by ball-milling, both in standard sized milling jars (10-15 mL volume) and in our miniaturised jars (2 mL volume).
