### Understanding cell chemotaxis using information theory

Project ID: 2228cd1333
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Division of Biosciences](../departments/division-of-biosciences.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/biosciences)

Lead Supervisor: [Robert Insall](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/96659)

Project Summary:

This is a multidisciplinary project combining mathematical modelling, information theory, and microscopy of real cells. A key aim is to train doctoral scientists who completely bridge the gap between mathematical and biomedical sciences, and can authoritatively take part in both disciplines.

Introduction:
Chemotaxis - cell migration directed by chemical gradients - is fundamentally important to human life, in (for example) embryogenesis and immunity, and drives diseases like cancer. However, we do not understand how it works.
One reason is the lack of theoretical understanding about how much information cells can find from a gradient, and which biological mechanisms are potentially best able to exploit it.


Aims:
The student will create quantitative models of a chemotaxing cell that incorporate all the key molecules, and use different mechanisms to convert the chemical gradients into directed motion. They will then use information theory to assess which possible mechanisms could most efficiently connect external gradients to intracellular processes, considering for example how long they would take to assess a direction, how accurately they could steer, and the cost of the information.

The student will then use computer-controlled digital microscopes and microfluidic devices to test which favoured mechanisms occur in vivo using real cells - for example bone-marrow derived dendritic cells.

Skills:
The student will obtain a thorough grounding in the mathematics of information theory, in computational modelling (for example partial differential equation based finite element models), and image processing.  They will also be trained in cell culture, live-cell microscopy and fabrication and use of microfluidic devices to study cell behaviour.
Equally important, they will have a full technical expertise and professional knowledge of both sides of the project.
