### Solute-driven manipulation of colloidal particles in lateral flow assay devices for ultrasensitive biochemical testing

Project ID: 2228cd1361
(You will need this ID for your application)

### Under Offer

Research Theme: [Physical Sciences](../themes/physical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: [Guido Bolognesi](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/91688)

Project Summary:

Lateral flow assays (LFAs) – e.g., COVID-19 lateral flow tests – are paper-based analytical devices used in medical diagnostics, and food and environmental safety. They offer several advantages, such as on-site, rapid, and equipment-free analysis, portability, cost-effectiveness, and ease of fabrication, use and storage. However, these devices fail to detect analytes at the low concentrations that characterise early-stage cancer or infectious diseases. 
The aim of this project is to investigate and exploit solute-driven electrokinetic phenomena to enable the rapid preconcentration of analytes/biomarkers in LFAs and increase the device sensitivity by orders of magnitudes. The validation of this radically new approach could lead to breakthrough point-of-care testing technologies, that could contribute to the global democratisation of diagnostics. This project will encompass both fundamental investigation of colloid/analyte/liquid dynamics in LFAs as well as the design and testing of novel paper-based testing devices. This project is aligned with ongoing EPSRC-funded research led by Dr Bolognesi in collaboration with an industrial partner (GADx), a leading developer of LFA and rapid diagnostic technologies.
The successful candidate will design and fabricate paper-based microfluidic devices and characterise the flow/analyte behaviour. She/he will use material characterisation techniques such as optical/electron microscopy, dynamic/electrophoretic light scattering and others. She/he will work also on the design, testing and experimental validation of novel proof-of-principle LFAs devices and, if interested, she/he will support the theoretical and numerical investigations of such systems. The candidate will engage in collaborations with academic and industrial project partners in UK and overseas.
We are looking for an enthusiastic student who have achieved, or is expecting to achieve, a first or upper second-class Honours degree or equivalent in Chemistry, Physics, Chemical or Mechanical Engineering or a related subject. Experience in paper-based microfluidics, LFAs and rapid diagnostic technologies, colloid and interface science are desirable although not a requisite.
