### Decarbonising Urban Energy Use: Microclimate-Informed Design Strategies for Sustainable Street Sections

Project ID: 2228cd1241
(You will need this ID for your application)

### Under Offer

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Ian Hamilton](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/7405)

Project Summary:

As urban populations continue to grow, cities face the challenge of meeting rising energy demands while improving its residents' quality of life in a warming climate. To combat greenhouse gas emissions originating from energy consumption, urban forms should provide residents opportunities to lower their energy usage, adapt to climate change, and mitigate its impacts.

The street section as a microsystem is in constant interchange between the outdoor urban environment and its buildings; therefore, its design directly influences cities' microclimate and energy consumption. Rising energy costs and energy security have increased the interest in a more affordable and independent off-grid energy supply. With a climate-sensitive design and the possibility to alter the microclimate, the chance to produce off-grid renewable energy and water harvesting, the urban street canyon can be transformed into a new eco-functional infrastructure.

An in-depth analysis of different urban street section typologies with newly developed environmental tools can reveal their impact on the energy requirements of their adjacent buildings. By implementing innovative design solutions, it's possible to modify the microclimate, reducing heat accumulation and creating a favourable environment that better supports building energy efficiency. This approach not only reduces energy demand but also enhances thermal comfort for pedestrians and residents, thus encouraging a low-carbon lifestyle and contributing to decarbonisation efforts.

With a focus on London, this studentship will focus on in depth on urban microclimate analysis and building energy performance tools to build evidence and tools for a deep understanding of the interchange of the urban environmental conditions on the energy demand of buildings. With the using of parametric tools design strategies will then be implemented to analyze the effect on the microclimate to mitigate the effect of a warming climate and the implementation of renewable off-grid energy production, such as urban PV.
