### A method and software for measuring the orientation of segmented Deep Brain Stimulation leads using electroencephalography

Project ID: 2228cd1441
(You will need this ID for your application)

### Under Offer

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Queen Square Institute of Neurology](../departments/queen-square-institute-of-neurology.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/ion)

Lead Supervisor: [Vladimir Litvak](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/10801)

Project Summary:

Why this research is important:

Brain pacemakers (also known as Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) devices) offer effective surgical treatment for neurological and psychiatric disorders. Current research efforts aim to improve treatment precision by accurately stimulating specific brain regions while minimising side effects. One promising approach uses segmented (directional) electrodes with split contacts, allowing focused steering of the stimulation current to a desired direction. To facilitate the subsequent stimulation fine-tuning, the leads’ orientation needs to be measured. Current solutions for determining lead orientation rely on X-ray technology (e.g. CT or rotational fluoroscopy), exposing patients to extra radiation and also have other limitations. We propose a simpler method based on electroencephalography (EEG) that can potentially be applied in an outpatient setting. Our preliminary phantom study confirmed that this method can potentially measure the orientation with high precision. The proposed project aims at developing a complete methodology and workflow for the future use of the method in patients. 

Who you will be working with: 

The project is co-supervised by Prof. Vladimir Litvak who is an expert in EEG methods and DBS research and Dr. Harith Akram who is a consultant functional neurosurgeon and neuroimaging expert. Additional support will be provided by Dr. Kirill Aristovich from UCL Engineering and Dr. Marie Krueger who is a neurosurgeon with a special interest in novel applications of directional leads. 

What will you be doing:

You will use phantom work and computational modelling to optimise the measurement protocol so that the measurement can be performed in an outpatient clinic. You will also develop the workflow and software to produce immediate results and test and refine the prototype in patients. 

Who are we looking for:

Candidates with quantitative background (physics, engineering, computer science), interest in applying engineering approaches to optimise treatment and aspirations for a future career in neurotechnology.
