### Fully funded PhD scholarship: Innovative technologies and digital transformation for infrastructure projects and systems

Project ID: 2228cd1273
(You will need this ID for your application)

### Under Offer

Research Theme: [Engineering](../themes/engineering.md)

UCL Lead department: [Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering (CEGE)](../departments/civil-environmental-and-geomatic-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/civil-environmental-geomatic-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Mikela Chatzimichailidou](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/87235)

Project Summary:

Why this research is important
Governments internationally encourage and support implementation of innovative technologies (e.g. digital twins; modern methods of construction) as they can achieve better social, economic, and environmental outcomes. As a result of major projects like Crossrail in London, Heathrow Terminal 5, Clichy-Batignolles in Paris, Queen’s Wharf in Brisbane, it is now recognised that there is an imperative need to consider infrastructure holistically and embrace both its technical complexity and social relevance.
The UK government has created a roadmap for infrastructure to adapt to the new era. High quality, sustainable, resilient, safe and secure infrastructure is central to this vision. The Infrastructure and Projects Authority argues that adopting digital and manufacturing techniques will help achieve the following key goals:
•	increase productivity
•	drive innovation
•	upskill and reskill workers
•	improve delivery, performance, and information management of built assets
•	build a globally competitive sector
These goals are a priority for other countries as well, as they are fully aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals.

Who you will be working with
To turn research into successful global application, the project will be supervised by world-class professionals from academia and industry. 
The successful applicant will also work with a team of researchers at UCL’s PEARL.	 

What you will be doing
This post provides a unique opportunity for transformative and interdisciplinary infrastructure systems research.  
The overarching aim is to explore and understand the impact of innovative technologies and digital transformation on quality, sustainability, resilience, health, safety and/or security to accelerate their application in infrastructure and maximise their value from a technical as well as a social perspective. 

Who we are looking for
We welcome applicants who have relevant demonstratable research skills gained from an academic or non-academic background, and value the socio-technical and cyber-physical aspects of infrastructure.
