### Catching Catalysis in the Act: Ultrafast Spectroscopy as an Analytical Tool

Project ID: 2228cd1376
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Manufacturing The Future](../themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: [Rebecca Ingle](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/72859)

Project Summary:

Chemical synthesis and manufacturing is one of the world’s largest energy consumers. In 2012, the UK’s Chemical Manufacturing sector accounted for 16.5 % of all industrial energy use in the UK and was responsible for the emission of 18.4 million tonnes of CO2, making it the UK’s second largest emitter. A significant proportion of this energy consumption and waste generation can be attributed to the need for high temperature reaction conditions.

Light-driven catalysis offers one route to more environmentally friendly, less energy intensive chemistry but screening and designing effective catalysts requires access to analytical tools capable of capturing the short-lived intermediates that are critical in the catalytical cycle. Ultrafast spectroscopy has the power to map out chemical reactions as they occur and capture even very short-lived reactive intermediates but various challenges with experimental hardware and the data analysis methods have prevent ultrafast methods being used as analytical techniques.

The project will involve the development of new data analysis strategies and hardware automation capabilities to transform ultrafast spectroscopy into a general chemical method for species identification, discrimination and catalytic reaction optimisation. The technological developments at UCL will also be integrated into an international open-source automated synthesis facility for large scale, fully automated catalyst design and synthesis.

An ideal candidate for this project will have a keen interest in data science and analysis and working with advanced laser systems and automation/robotics technologies. No prior experience is required but an interest in catalysis, photochemistry and programming will be advantageous. Enthusiasm and willingness to learn is essential as this will be a highly interdisciplinary project involving an international research team and industrial partners
