### Bioelectronics

Project ID: 2228cd1294
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Electronic and Electrical Engineering (EEE)](../departments/electronic-and-electrical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/electronic-electrical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Andreas Demosthenous](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/10892)

Project Summary:

The UCL Bioelectronics group seeks high-calibre candidates for research in circuits and systems with emphasis in healthcare technologies. The group has long record of pioneering research in implantable and wearable medical devices, biosensors, lab-on-chip and human-machine-interfaces. The group specialises in integrated circuit design, creating advanced microchips and microsystems.

The following PhD projects are available:       

1. Self-Powered Biosensors for Cardiovascular Patients 
Using advanced materials and CMOS technology, develop new generation implantable devices capable of being powered by the heart for heart transplantation patients and future pacemakers.

2. Wearable Monitoring Devices Using CMOS and Organic Electronics 
Using CMOS and organic transistors, develop a multi-parameter sensing and imaging device for prematurely born neonates, providing regional physiological information, apnoea and ECG monitoring.

3. Wearable Technology for Brain Disorders 
Combining microelectronics design, electromagnetics and nanotechnology, develop a new wearable non-invasive device to measure and stimulate activity in specific brain regions, to provide therapy for neurological disorders like Parkinson’s disease.

4. Monitoring the Integrity of Implantable Biosensors
Minimally invasive monitoring of biofluids can be achieved through implantable wireless microsystems. Packaging such systems presents a unique challenge: allowing sensor contact with biofluid whilst avoiding liquid contact with sensitive electronics. This project investigates fundamental techniques to monitor the integrity of micro-packaged sensors over their lifetime. 

5. Robotic-Assisted Medical Intervention Using Wearable Haptic Interfaces
To develop new wearable integrated haptic devices with robotic systems, capable of heightened tactile feedback for minimally invasive surgery. It will combine integrated circuit design, neural networks, and mechatronics.  
 
6. Bioelectric Control of Embryonic Development
Although embryo bioelectric properties are associated with embryo and organ development, these properties have been neglected due to lack of technologies for quantitative measurements. This project will develop new microelectronic instrumentation to control bioelectric signal in embryonic processes.

Desirable skills include microelectronics design, embedded system design, and/or solid-state sensor development.
